# nft-preview-card-component

This is my solution to the Frontend mentor nft preview card challenge. Ive created it using HTML and CSS. To place the card to the center, i have added a flex display property to the HTML body and added center value to the justify-content and align-items property. The Card has been given a div class called card-container that holds two more div classes called image-holder and card-body. The image-holder has a width of 100% so that it takes full width of the card and a height of 60% for occupying slightly more vertical space than card-body. I have provided a padding of 1.5rem inside the card-container to give a slight gap between the border and its contents. The card-body comprises of an h2 class of .header, p class of .paragraph, flex-container-1 and flex-container-2 classes and an hr tag called horizontal rule which adds an effect of a dashed line. Flex-container-1 and 2 has been provided a display of flex. Addditionally flex-container-1 has a justify-content property set to space-between to place its contents to the edges of the card. Inside flex-container-1 there are two more div classes called crypto and time that also has a display of flex. A gap property of 0.3rem has been added to both of them to provide a small gap between the text and the logos. Flex-container-2 has a profile image and text that has their own individual div classes. As there is no flex-direction property set therefore the default direction is row here. Utilizing this, i have provided it a justify-content property of flex-start so that the image including the text clings to the left side of the card. 


#Difficulties.


The challenging part was to add hover effects when the cursor is taken over the top image of the card. I was unsuccessful a couple of times as i was not able to achieve the background color effect and to display the eye logo at the center of the image when the cursor is placed on it. However i managed to achieve it and the trick here was to add two pseudo hover classes. One to the div container class that contains the image tag and the other one to the image tag class itself. The image container here has a class of .image-holder and the image tag has a class of .cube. Thus i have created .cube:hover and .Image-holder:hover. .cube:hover has been provided an opacity of 0.3 to dim the image slightly. For image-holder:hover ive added a cyan background color and additionally i have also added an eye logo at its center by using the background-image property. I have also added a background-repeat property and set its value to no-repeat to prevent the eye logo showing up multiple times over the image. You can check out the github pages associated with this repository to look at the hover effect on the card. 

The second challenge was to add the outer shadows to the card. Now, initially i wanted to go forward with the box-shadow property but upon closer inspection of the design files i noticed there were two shadow layers one of which was a darker one and the other one was lighter, therefore i decided not to use box-shadow. To achieve this effect i created two additional div classes called .dark-shadow and .light-shadow. I placed the card-container inside the dark-shadow which in turn has been placed inside light-shadow to resemble the over all shadow effect. I now added different shades of the background color that the HTML body has to those classes individually.
